KUALA LUMPUR (Nov 22): Health Minister Khairy Jamaluddin has warned that movement restrictions in the social sector would be reintroduced if Covid-19 cases overrun hospitals, and that Malaysia's transition into the endemic phase for the disease would take a "long, long time", according to a report by health news portal CodeBlue on Monday. "We're nowhere near that right now. If any countries feel they can declare victory, they're sorely mistaken," Khairy was quoted as having told the virtual Global Town Hall 2021 organised by the Foreign Policy Community of Indonesia last Saturday. He also said Malaysia has been using the buffer from the decline in Covid-19 cases to plan public health responses in anticipation of a simulated fourth wave of the pandemic. "The greatest nightmare a health minister has is, of course, hospital capacity, especially critical care capacity, ICU (intensive care unit) capacity. Once it breaches a certain point, then red flags are raised and we need to have a heightened alert system and we need to step down on certain social activities," he was quoted as saying. He reportedly told the media in Rembau on Sunday that the government would not impose a total lockdown should cases escalate, but that some movement restrictions would be imposed through a "heightened alert system" instead. Meanwhile, new daily Covid-19 infections and hospital admissions have steadily increased across the country over the past two weeks, CodeBlue reported, with Klang Valley hospitals bracing for a potential surge in cases. The Klang Valley's ICU utilisation stood at 82%, while Negeri Sembilan's was reported at 93%, according to the COVIDNOW website. At a Malaysian Family corporate contribution presentation here on Monday, Khairy again reminded the public to continue adhering to the standard operating procedures set by the authorities, as he said Malaysia is still not out of the woods in its Covid-19 battle. "We know that this is a particularly stubborn virus. It's not going anywhere but we have to continue to move forward, reopening safely but at the same time ensuring that our public healthcare system is not crippled or paralysed," he said, according to Bernama. Khairy also reminded those who have already received their appointment for a booster dose to go for it, especially those above 40 years old and individuals with comorbidity. "Whatever that is offered, take it. It will not only help you in terms of ensuring better coverage but also help other people by bringing down the transmission risk," he added. Malaysia's new Covid-19 cases dipped below 5,000 to 4,854 on Sunday (Nov 21). On Monday, 4,885 new cases were recorded.