EXPERTS have warned that there are signs that Malaysia could be swept away by a fresh Covid-19 wave if no intervention measures are put in place. There are already a number of indicators, including the national coronavirus infectivity rate (Rt), which points that the country is heading towards such a direction. The nationwide Rt hit 1.0 on Nov 11, about five weeks after the ban on interstate movement was lifted, and continued to climb before it remained at 1.05 on Sunday. As of press time, the nationwide hospital bed utilisation rate stood at 66.4 per cent, a seven per cent jump from the previous week. The Health Ministry together with other agencies have organised National Table Top Exercise to prepare for worst-case scenarios and simulate crisis responses to prepare for any eventuality. Malaysian Public Health Physicians Association president Datuk Dr Zainal Ariffin Omar did not discount the probability of another Covid-19 wave if the public let their guard down and fail to comply with the standard operating procedures (SOP). "Everyone should be alarmed," he said. Universiti Putra Malaysia's epidemiologist and biostatistician Associate Professor Dr Malina Osman said the current development in the country's Covid-19 situation must be closely monitored. "At the same time, all of us should be wary of any risk of infection. For the past two months, there has been an increasing trend of new infections among fully vaccinated people as well as the hospitalisation rate among them," she said. Dr Malina said with the relaxing of restrictions over some activities, it was imperative that the public was continuously reminded of the need to adhere to the SOP. "In my opinion, we have a really tough situation when discussing socio-behavioural characteristics among the community. Based on our experience of facing this outbreak and practising the new norms for almost 21 months, we have to admit that it is a very difficult condition to maintain the SOP for a prolonged duration," she said. Both health experts said compliance with the SOP was imperative to prevent Malaysia from experiencing another Covid-19 wave. They proposed stricter enforcement against those who fail to comply with the SOP. "Enforcement under Act 342 (the Prevention and Control of Infectious Diseases Act 1988), particularly on certain social activities, should be carried out to prevent any potential new cases or emergence of new clusters," said Dr Malina. Dr Zainal said the authorities should also continue looking out for new Covid-19 clusters to control the spread of the virus. "The authorities should continue with higher vaccination coverage for children aged 12 and above. At the same time, the authorities should also increase the Covid-19 booster shot uptake," he said. With evidence of waning of antibodies among the fully inoculated, Dr Malina said those eligible for booster doses must turn up for their appointments. "I would also suggest a walk-in vaccination for those eligible to be administered for booster shots as well as those who have yet to receive the Covid-19 vaccine," she said. Dr Malina also suggested that Malaysia emulate the move by Singapore, which requires people who choose not to be vaccinated to pay for their own medical bills if they are admitted to hospitals or Covid-19 treatment facilities. This, she said, was to encourage people who had yet to get vaccinated to do so. "Perhaps the approach by Singapore can be 'modified' in our country through certain mechanisms. For example, those who reject vaccination (without valid health reasons) need to pay a certain premium (if they become infected and wish to be treated at government hospitals). "With the burden of healthcare due to long Covid, on the Intensive Care Units as well as our frontliners, who are fatigued, this should be considered wisely."