KUALA LUMPUR: The Covid-19 Immunisation Task Force (CITF) has opened registrations for the Covid-19 booster shot for all adults aged 18 and above. Health Minister Khairy Jamaluddin in a statement today said the Technical Working Group under the Covid-19 Immunisation Task Force Booster (CITF-B) has come up with the recommendation that booster shots be administered to all adults who have been inoculated with primary vaccine, either Astra Zeneca, Pfizer or Sinovac. He said the government has decided to open up the booster shot registration not only for those above 40 years old but to all adults who have completed their two primary vaccine shots. "The duration for the booster shot would, however, vary from person to person, based on the primary vaccine injected and one's health status depending on the age and if there is any comorbidity sickness." Khairy said the booster shots will be administered on a step down approach focusing on the elderly first, similar to the primary vaccination programme. "Frontliners, those with underlying health conditions, those who are pregnant or planning to travel overseas will also be prioritised for the booster doses," he said, adding that the CITF-B recommends a mix and match for the booster shot, including Pfizer, AstraZeneca and Sinovac. Registration for booster shots are open on the MySejahtera application as well as via the Protect Health website at https://protecthealth.com.my Khairy said the Comirnaty Pfizer booster shot is appropriate for all vaccine types, especially for those below the age of 50. "However, for those who are older and who received AstraZeneca as the primary shots, we recommend them to get an AstraZeneca booster, to boost the efficacy rates. "For Sinovac recipients, once they have completed the two doses and finished the three months period, we suggest that they get a Pfizer as the booster. Whereas for those above 50 we recommend for them to take the AstraZeneca booster instead." Khairy said a third Sinovac shot may be administered if the recipient insists on the same brand or is in fear of contra complications. For AstraZeneca vaccine recipients, he said they may opt for the booster shot after six months of the second primary dose. "The AZ recipients may get the same booster vaccine or Pfizer as the booster shot. However, for those who got Moderna, CanSino, Sinopharm, Johnson & Johnson or Pfizer, they too may opt for the same vaccine provided they follow the inoculation window period accordingly."